Jeeves placed the sizzling eggs and b. on the breakfast table, and Reginald (’Kipper’) Herring and I,
licking the lips, squared our elbows and got down to it. A lifelong buddy of mine, this Herring,
linked to me by what are called imperishable memories. Years ago, when striplings, he and I
had done a stretch together at Malvern House, Bramley-on-Sea, the preparatory school conducted
by that prince of stinkers, Aubrey Upjohn MA, and had frequently stood side by side in the Upjohn
study awaiting the receipt of six of the juiciest from a cane of the type that biteth like a serpent and
stingeth like an adder, as the fellow said. So we were, you might say, rather like a couple of old
sweats who had fought shoulder-to-shoulder on Crispin’s Day, if I’ve got the name right.
The plat du jour having gone down the hatch, accompanied by some fluid ounces of strengthening coffee,
I was about to reach for the marmalade, when I heard the telephone tootling out in the hall and rose to attend to it.
‘Bertram Wooster’s residence,’ I said, having connected with the instrument. ‘Wooster in person
at this end. Oh hullo,’ I added, for the voice that boomed over the wire was that of Mrs. Thomas
Portarlington Travers of Brinkley Court, Market Snodsbury, near Droitwich—or, putting it another
way, my good and deserving Aunt Dahlia. ‘A very hearty pip-pip to you, old ancestor,’ I said,
wellpleased, for she is a woman with whom it is always a privilege to chew the fat.
‘And a rousing toodle-oo to you, you young blot on the landscape,’ she replied cordially. ‘I’m
surprised to find you up as early as this. Or have you just got in from a night on the tiles?’
I hastened to rebut this slur.
‘Certainly not. Nothing of that description whatsoever. I’ve been upping with the lark this last
week, to keep Kipper Herring company. He’s staying with me till he can get into his new flat. You
remember old Kipper? I brought him down to Brinkley one summer. Chap with a cauliflower ear.’
‘I know who you mean. Looks like Jack Dempsey.’
‘That’s right. Far more, indeed, than Jack Dempsey does. He’s on the staff of the Thursday Review,
a periodical of which you may or may not be a reader, and has to clock in at the office at daybreak.
No doubt, when I apprise him of your call, he will send you his love, for I know he holds you
in high esteem. The perfect hostess, he often describes you as. Well, it’s nice to hear your voice
again, old flesh-and-blood. How’s everything down Market Snodsbury way?’
‘Oh, we’re jogging along. But I’m not speaking from Brinkley. I’m in London.’
‘Till when?’
‘Driving back this afternoon.’
‘I’ll give you lunch.’
‘Sorry, can’t manage it. I’m putting on the nosebag with Sir Roderick Glossop.’
This surprised me. The eminent brain specialist to whom she alluded was a man I would not
have cared to lunch with myself, our relations having been on the stiff side since the night at Lady
Wickham’s place in Hertfordshire when, acting on the advice of my hostess’s daughter Roberta, I
had punctured his hot-water bottle with a darning needle in the small hours of the morning. Quite
unintentional, of course. I had planned to puncture the h-w-b of his nephew Tuppy Glossop, with
whom I had a feud on, and unknown to me they had changed rooms, just one of those unfortunate
misunderstandings.
‘What on earth are you doing that for?’
‘Why shouldn’t I? He’s paying.’
I saw her point—a penny saved is a penny earned and all that sort of thing—but I continued surprised.
It amazed me that Aunt Dahlia, presumably a free agent, should have selected this very formidable
loony-doctor to chew the mid-day chop with. However, one of the first lessons life teaches
us is that aunts will be aunts, so I merely shrugged a couple of shoulders.
‘Well, it’s up to you, of course, but it seems a rash act. Did you come to London just to revel
with Glossop?’ ‘No, I’m here to collect my new butler and take him home with me.’
‘New butler? What’s become of Seppings?’
‘He’s gone.’
I clicked the tongue. I was very fond of the major-domo in question, having enjoyed many a port
in his pantry, and this news saddened me.
‘No, really?’ I said. ‘Too bad. I thought he looked a little frail when I last saw him. Well, that’s
how it goes. All flesh is grass, I often say.’
‘To Bognor Regis, for his holiday.’
I unclicked the tongue.
‘Oh, I see. That puts a different complexion on the matter. Odd how all these pillars of the home
seem to be dashing away on toots these days. It’s like what Jeeves was telling me about the great
race movements of the Middle Ages. Jeeves starts his holiday this morning. He’s off to Herne Bay
for the shrimping, and I’m feeling like that bird in the poem who lost his pet gazelle or whatever the
animal was. I don’t know what I’m going to do without him.’
‘I’ll tell you what you’re going to do. Have you a clean shirt?’
‘Several.’
‘And a toothbrush?’
‘Two, both of the finest quality.’
‘Then pack them. You’re coming to Brinkley tomorrow.’
The gloom which always envelops Bertram Wooster like a fog when Jeeves is about to take his
annual vacation lightened perceptibly. There are few things I find more agreeable than a sojourn at
Aunt Dahlia’s rural lair. Picturesque scenery, gravel soil, main drainage, company’s own water and,
above all, the superb French cheffing of her French chef Anatole, God’s gift to the gastric juices. A
full hand, as you might put it.
‘What an admirable suggestion,’ I said. ‘You solve all my problems and bring the blue bird out
of a hat. Rely on me. You will observe me bowling up in the Wooster sports model tomorrow afternoon
with my hair in a braid and a song on my lips. My presence will, I feel sure, stimulate Anatole
to new heights of endeavour. Got anybody else staying at the old snake pit?’
‘Five inmates in all.’
‘Five?’ I resumed my tongue-clicking. ‘Golly! Uncle Tom must be frothing at the mouth a bit,’ I
said, for I knew the old buster’s distaste for guests in the home. Even a single weekender is
sometimes enough to make him drain the bitter cup.
‘Tom’s not there. He’s gone to Harrogate with Cream.’
‘You mean lumbago.’
‘I don’t mean lumbago. I mean Cream. Homer Cream. Big American tycoon, who is visiting
these shores. He suffers from ulcers, and his medicine man has ordered him to take the waters at
Harrogate. Tom has gone with him to hold his hand and listen to him of an evening while he tells
him how filthy the stuff tastes.’
‘Antagonistic.’
‘What?’
‘I mean altruistic. You are probably not familiar with the word, but it’s one I’ve heard Jeeves
use. It’s what you say of a fellow who gives selfless service, not counting the cost.’
‘Selfless service, my foot! Tom’s in the middle of a very important business deal with Cream. If
it goes through, he’ll make a packet free of income tax. So he’s sucking up to him like a Hollywood
Yes-man.’
I gave an intelligent nod, though this of course was wasted on her because she couldn’t see me. I
could readily understand my uncle-by-marriage’s mental processes. T. Portarlington Travers is a
man who has accumulated the pieces of eight in sackfuls, but he is always more than willing to
shove a bit extra away behind the brick in the fireplace, feeling—and rightly—that every little bit
added to what you’ve got makes just a little bit more. And if there’s one thing that’s right up his
street, it is not paying income tax. He grudges every penny the Government nicks him for. ‘That is why,
when kissing me goodbye, he urged me with tears in his eyes to lush Mrs. Cream
and her son Willie up and treat them like royalty. So they’re at Brinkley, dug into the woodwork.’
‘Willie, did you say?’
‘Short for Wilbert.’
I mused. Willie Cream. The name seemed familiar somehow. I seemed to have heard it or seen it
in the papers somewhere. But it eluded me.
‘Adela Cream writes mystery stories. Are you a fan of hers? No? Well, start boning up on them,
directly you arrive, because every little helps. I’ve bought a complete set. They’re very good.’
‘I shall be delighted to run an eye over her material,’ I said, for I am what they call an asomething
of novels of suspense. Aficionado, would that be it? ‘I can always do with another corpse
or two. We have established, then, that among the inmates are this Mrs. Cream and her son Wilbert.
Who are the other three?’
‘Well, there’s Lady Wickham’s daughter Roberta.’
I started violently, as if some unseen hand had goosed me.
‘What! Bobbie Wickham? Oh, my gosh!’
‘Why the agitation? Do you know her?’
‘You bet I know her.’
‘I begin to see. Is she one of the gaggle of girls you’ve been engaged to?’
‘Not actually, no. We were never engaged. But that was merely because she wouldn’t meet me
half-way.’
‘Turned you down, did she?’
‘Yes, thank goodness.’
‘Why thank goodness? She’s a one-girl beauty chorus.’
‘She doesn’t try the eyes, I agree.’
‘A pippin, if ever there was one.’
‘Very true, but is being a pippin everything? What price the soul?’
‘Isn’t her soul like mother makes?’
‘Far from it. Much below par. What I could tell you… But no, let it go. Painful subj.’
I had been about to mention fifty-seven or so of the reasons why the prudent operator,
if he valued his peace of mind, deemed it best to stay well away from the red-headed
menace under advisement, but realised that at a moment when I was wanting to get back
to the marmalade it would occupy too much time. It will be enough to say that I had
long since come out of the ether and was fully cognisant of the fact that in declining
to fall in with my suggestion that we should start rounding up clergymen and bridesmaids,
the beasel had rendered me a signal service, and I’ll tell you why.
Aunt Dahlia, describing this young blister as a one-girl beauty chorus,
had called her shots perfectly correctly. Her outer crust was indeed of a nature to cause those beholding it to rock back on
their heels with a startled whistle. But while equipped with eyes like twin stars, hair ruddier than the
cherry, oomph, espieglene and all the fixings, B. Wickham had also the disposition and general outlook
on life of a ticking bomb. In her society you always had the uneasy feeling that something was
likely to go off at any moment with a pop. You never knew what she was going to do next or into
what murky depths of soup she would carelessly plunge you.
‘Miss Wickham, sir,’ Jeeves had once said to me warningly at the time when the fever was at its
height, ‘lacks seriousness. She is volatile and frivolous. I would always hesitate to recommend as a
life partner a young lady with quite such a vivid shade of red hair.’
His judgment was sound. I have already mentioned how with her subtle wiles this girl had induced me
to sneak into Sir Roderick Glossop’s sleeping apartment and apply the darning needle to
his hot-water bottle, and that was comparatively mild going for her. In a word, Roberta, daughter of
the late Sir Cuthbert and Lady Wickham of Skeldings Hall, Herts., was pure dynamite and better
kept at a distance by all those who aimed at leading the peaceful life. The prospect of being immured
with her in the same house, with all the facilities a country-house affords an enterprising girl for
landing her nearest and dearest in the mulligatawny, made me singularly dubious about the shape of things to come.
And I was tottering under this blow when the old relative administered another, and it was a haymaker.
‘And there’s Aubrey Upjohn and his stepdaughter Phyllis Mills,’ she said. ‘That’s the lot. What’s
the matter with you? Got asthma?’
I took her to be alluding to the sharp gasp which had escaped my lips, and I must confess that it
had come out not unlike the last words of a dying duck. But I felt perfectly justified in gasping. A
weaker man would have howled like a banshee. There floated into my mind something Kipper Herring had once said to me.
‘You know, Bertie,’ he had said, in philosophical mood, ‘we have much
to be thankful for in this life of ours, you and I. However rough the going, there is one sustaining
thought to which we can hold. The storm clouds may lower and the horizon grow dark, we may get
a nail in our shoe and be caught in the rain without an umbrella, we may come down to breakfast
and find that someone else has taken the brown egg, but at least we have the consolation of knowing
that we shall never see Aubrey Gawd-help-us Upjohn again. Always remember this in times of
despondency,’ he said, and I always had. And now here the bounder was, bobbing up right in my
midst. Enough to make the stoutest-hearted go into his dying-duck routine.
‘Aubrey Upjohn?’ I quavered. ‘You mean my Aubrey Upjohn?’
‘That’s the one. Soon after you made your escape from his chain gang he married Jane Mills, a
friend of mine with a colossal amount of money. She died, leaving a daughter. I’m the daughter’s
godmother. Upjohn’s retired now and going in for politics. The hot tip is that the boys in the back
room are going to run him as the Conservative candidate in the Market Snodsbury division at the
next by-election. What a thrill it’ll be for you, meeting him again. Or does the prospect scare you?’
‘Certainly not. We Woosters are intrepid. But what on earth did you invite him to Brinkley for?’
‘I didn’t. I only wanted Phyllis, but he came along, too.’
‘You should have bunged him out.’
‘I hadn’t the heart to.’
‘Weak, very weak.’
‘Besides, I needed him in my business. He’s going to present the prizes at Market Snodsbury
Grammar School. We’ve been caught short as usual, and somebody has got to make a speech on
ideals and the great world outside to those blasted boys, so he fits in nicely. I believe he’s a very
fine speaker. His only trouble is that he’s stymied unless he has his speech with him and can read it.
Calls it referring to his notes. Phyllis told me that. She types the stuff for him.’
‘A thoroughly low trick,’ I said severely. ‘Even I, who have never soared above the Yeoman’s
Wedding Song at a village concert, wouldn’t have the crust to face my public unless I’d taken the
trouble to memorise the words, though actually with the Yeoman’s Wedding Song it is possible to
get by quite comfortably by keeping singing “Ding dong, ding dong, ding dong, I hurry along”. In
short…’
I would have spoken further, but at this point, after urging me to put a sock in it, and giving me a
kindly word of warning not to step on any banana skins, she rang off.
I came away from the telephone on what practically amounted to leaden feet. Here, I was feeling,
was a nice bit of box fruit. Bobbie Wickham, with her tendency to stir things up and with each new
day to discover some new way of staggering civilisation, would by herself have been bad enough.
Add Aubrey Upjohn, and the mixture became too rich. I don’t know if Kipper, when I rejoined him,
noticed that my brow was sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought, as I have heard Jeeves put it.
Probably not, for he was tucking into toast and marmalade at the moment, but it was. As had
happened so often in the past, I was conscious of an impending doom. Exactly what form this
would take I was of course unable to say—it might be one thing or it might be another—but a
voice seemed to whisper to me that somehow at some not distant date Bertram was slated to get it in the
gizzard.
‘That was Aunt Dahlia, Kipper,’ I said.
‘Bless her jolly old heart,’ he responded. ‘One of the very best, and you can quote me as saying
so. I shall never forget those happy days at Brinkley, and shall be glad at any time that suits her to
cadge another invitation. Is she up in London?’
‘Till this afternoon.’
‘We fill her to the brim with rich foods, of course?’
‘No, she’s got a lunch date. She’s browsing with Sir Roderick Glossop, the loony-doctor. You
don’t know him, do you?’
‘Only from hearing you speak of him. A tough egg, I gather.’
‘One of the toughest.’
‘He was the chap, wasn’t he, who found the twenty-four cats in your bedroom?’
‘Twenty-three,’ I corrected. I like to get things right. ‘They were not my cats.
They had been deposited there by my Cousins Claude and Eustace. But I found them difficult to explain. He’s a
rather bad listener. I hope I shan’t find him at Brinkley, too.’
‘Are you going to Brinkley?’
‘Tomorrow afternoon.’
‘You’ll enjoy that.’
‘Well, shall I? The point is a very moot one.’
‘You’re crazy. Think of Anatole. Those dinners of his! Is the name of the Peri who stood disconsolate at the
gate of Eden familiar to you?’
‘I’ve heard Jeeves mention her.’
‘Well, that’s how I feel when I remember Anatole’s dinners. When I reflect that every night he’s
dishing them up and I’m not there, I come within a very little of breaking down. What gives you the
idea that you won’t enjoy yourself? Brinkley Court’s an earthly Paradise.’
‘In many respects, yes, but life there at the moment has its drawbacks. There’s far too much of
that where-every-prospect-pleases-and-only-man-is-vile stuff buzzing around for my taste. Who do
you think is staying at the old dosshouse? Aubrey Upjohn.’
It was plain that I had shaken him. His eyes widened, and an astonished piece of toast fell from
his grasp.
‘Old Upjohn? You’re kidding.’
‘No, he’s there. Himself, not a picture. And it seems only yesterday that you were buoying me up
by telling me I’d never have to see him again. The storm clouds may lower, you said, if you recollect…’
‘But how does he come to be at Brinkley?’
‘Precisely what I asked the aged relative, and she had an explanation that seems to cover the
facts. Apparently after we took our eye off him he married a friend of hers, one Jane Mills, and acquired
a stepdaughter, Phyllis Mills, whose godmother Aunt Dahlia is. The ancestor invited the
Mills girl to Brinkley, and Upjohn came along for the ride.’
‘I see. I don’t wonder you’re trembling like a leaf.’
‘Not like a leaf, exactly, but… yes, I think you might describe me as trembling. One remembers
that fishy eye of his.’
‘And the wide, bare upper lip. It won’t be pleasant having to gaze at those across the dinner
table. Still, you’ll like Phyllis.’
‘Do you know her?’
‘We met out in Switzerland last Christmas. Slap her on the back, will you, and give her my regards.
Nice girl, though goofy. She never told me she was related to Upjohn.’
‘She would naturally keep a thing like that dark.’
‘Yes, one sees that. Just as one would have tried to keep it dark if one had been mixed up in any
way with Palmer the poisoner. What ghastly garbage that was he used to fling at us when we were
serving our sentence at Malvern House. Remember the sausages on Sunday? And the boiled mutton
with caper sauce?’
‘And the margarine. Recalling this last, it’s going to be a strain having to sit and watch him
getting outside pounds of best country butter. Oh, Jeeves,’ I said, as he shimmered in to clear the table,
‘you never went to a preparatory school on the south coast of England, did you?’
‘No, sir, I was privately educated.’
‘Ah, then you wouldn’t understand. Mr. Herring and I were discussing our former prep-school
beak, Aubrey Upjohn, MA. By the way, Kipper, Aunt Dahlia was telling me something about him
which I never knew before and which ought to expose him to the odium of all thinking men. You
remember those powerful end-of-term addresses he used to make to us? Well, he couldn’t have
made them if he hadn’t had the stuff all typed out in his grasp, so that he could read it. Without his
notes, as he calls them, he’s a spent force. Revolting, that, Jeeves, don’t you think?’
‘Many orators are, I believe, similarly handicapped, sir.’
‘Too tolerant, Jeeves, far too tolerant. You must guard against this lax outlook. However, the
reason I mention Upjohn to you is that he has come back into my life, or will be so coming in about
two ticks. He’s staying at Brinkley, and I shall be going there tomorrow. That was Aunt Dahlia on
the phone just now, and she demands my presence. Will you pack a few necessaries in a suitcase or
so?’
‘Very good, sir.’
‘When are you leaving on your Herne Bay jaunt?’
‘I was thinking of taking a train this morning, sir, but if you would prefer that I remained till tomorrow—’
‘No, no, perfectly all right. Start as soon as you like. What’s the joke?’ I asked, as the door
closed behind him, for I observed that Kipper was chuckling softly. Not an easy thing to do, of
course, when your mouth’s full of toast and marmalade, but he was doing it.
‘I was thinking of Upjohn,’ he said.
I was amazed. It seemed incredible to me that anyone who had done time at Malvern House,
Bramley-on-Sea, could chuckle, softly or otherwise, when letting the mind dwell on that outstanding menace.
It was like laughing lightly while contemplating one of those horrors from outer space
which are so much with us at the moment on the motion-picture screen.
‘I envy you, Bertie,’ he went on, continuing to chuckle. ‘You have a wonderful treat in store.
You are going to be present at the breakfast table when Upjohn opens his copy of this week’s
Thursday Review and starts to skim through the pages devoted to comments on current literature. I
should explain that among the books that recently arrived at the office was a slim volume from his
pen dealing with the Preparatory School and giving it an enthusiastic build-up. The formative years
which we spent there, he said, were the happiest of our life.’
‘Gadzooks!’
‘He little knew that his brainchild would be given to one of the old lags of Malvern House to review.
I’ll tell you something, Bertie, that every young man ought to know. Never be a stinker, because if you are,
though you may flourish for a time like a green bay tree, sooner or later retribution
will overtake you. I need scarcely tell you that I ripped the stuffing out of the beastly little brochure.
The thought of those sausages on Sunday filled me with the righteous fury of a Juvenal.’
‘Of a who?’
‘Nobody you know. Before your time. I seemed inspired. Normally, I suppose, a book like that
would get me a line and a half in the Other Recent Publications column, but I gave it six hundred
words of impassioned prose. How extraordinarily fortunate you are to be in a position to watch his
face as he reads them.’
‘How do you know he’ll read them?’
‘He’s a subscriber. There was a letter from him on the correspondence page a week or two ago,
in which he specifically stated that he had been one for years.’
‘Did you sign the thing?’
‘No. Ye Ed is not keen on underlings advertising their names.’ ‘And it was really hot stuff?’
‘Red-hot. So eye him closely at the breakfast table. Mark his reaction. I confidently expect the
blush of shame and remorse to mantle his cheek.’
‘The only catch is that I don’t come down to breakfast when I’m at Brinkley. Still, I suppose I
could make a special effort.’
‘Do so. You will find it well worth while,’ said Kipper and shortly afterwards popped off to resume the earning of the weekly envelope.
He had been gone about twenty minutes when Jeeves came in, bowler hat in hand, to say goodbye.
A solemn moment, taxing our self-control to the utmost. However, we both kept the upper lip
stiff, and after we had kidded back and forth for a while he started to withdraw. He had reached the
door when it suddenly occurred to me that he might have inside information about this Wilbert
Cream of whom Aunt Dahlia had spoken. I have generally found that he knows everything about
everyone.
‘Oh, Jeeves,’ I said. ‘Half a jiffy.’
‘Sir?’
‘Something I want to ask you. It seems that among my fellow-guests at Brinkley will be a Mrs.
Homer Cream, wife of an American big butter and egg man, and her son Wilbert, commonly known
as Willie, and the name Willie Cream seemed somehow to touch a chord. Rightly or wrongly
I associate it with trips we have taken to New York, but in what connection I haven’t the vaguest. Does
it ring a bell with you?’
‘Why yes, sir. References to the gentleman are frequent in the tabloid newspapers of New York,
notably in the column conducted by Mr. Walter Winchell. He is generally alluded to under the
sobriquet of Broadway Willie.’
‘Of course! It all comes back to me. He’s what they call a playboy.’
‘Precisely, sir. Notorious for his escapades.’
‘Yes, I’ve got him placed now. He’s the fellow who likes to let off stink bombs in night clubs,
which rather falls under the head of carrying coals to Newcastle and seldom cashes a cheque at his
bank without producing a gat and saying, “This is a stick-up.”’
‘And… No, sir, I regret that it has for the moment escaped my memory.’
‘What has?’
‘Some other little something, sir, that I was told regarding Mr. Cream. Should I recall it, I will
communicate with you.’
‘Yes, do. One wants the complete picture. Oh, gosh!’
‘Sir?’
‘Nothing, Jeeves. Just a thought has floated into my mind. All right, push off, or you’ll miss your
train. Good luck to your shrimping net.’
I’ll tell you what the thought was that had floated. I have already indicated my qualms at the prospect
of being cooped up in the same house with Bobbie Wickham and Aubrey Upjohn, for who
could tell what the harvest might be? If in addition to these two heavies I was also to be cheek by
jowl with a New York playboy apparently afflicted with bats in the belfry, it began to look as if this
visit would prove too much for Bertram’s frail strength, and for an instant I toyed with the idea of
sending a telegram of regret and oiling out.
Then I remembered Anatole’s cooking and was strong again. Nobody who has once tasted them
would wantonly deprive himself of that wizard’s smoked offerings. Whatever spiritual agonies I
might be about to undergo at Brinkley Court, Market Snodsbury, near Droitwich, residence there
would at least put me several Supremes de Foie Gras au Champagne and Mignonettes de Poulet
Petit Duc ahead of the game. Nevertheless, it would be paltering with the truth to say that I was at
my ease as I thought of what lay before me in darkest Worcestershire, and the hand that lit the after
breakfast gasper shook quite a bit. At this moment of nervous tension the telephone suddenly gave tongue again, causing me to skip
like the high hills, as if the Last Trump had sounded. I went to the instrument all of a twitter.
Some species of butler appeared to be at the other end. ‘Mr. Wooster?’
‘On the spot.’
‘Good morning, sir. Her ladyship wishes to speak to you. Lady Wickham, sir. Here is Mr.
Wooster, m’lady.’
And Bobbie’s mother came on the air.
I should have mentioned, by the way, that during the above exchange of ideas with the butler I
had been aware of a distant sound of sobbing, like background music, and it now became apparent
that it was from the larynx of the relict of the late Sir Cuthbert that it was proceeding. There was a
short intermission before she got the vocal cords working, and while I was waiting for her to start
the dialogue I found myself wrestling with two problems that presented themselves—the first, What
on earth is this woman ringing me up for?, the second, Having got the number, why does she sob?
It was Problem A that puzzled me particularly, for ever since that hot-water-bottle episode my
relations with this parent of Bobbie’s had been on the strained side. It was, indeed, an open secret
that my standing with her was practically that of a rat of the underworld. I had had this from Bobbie,
whose impersonation of her mother discussing me with sympathetic cronies had been exceptionally vivid,
and I must confess that I wasn’t altogether surprised. No hostess, I mean to say,
extending her hospitality to a friend of her daughter’s, likes to have the young visitor going about the
place puncturing people’s water-bottles and leaving at three in the morning without stopping to say
good-bye. Yes, I could see her side of the thing all right, and I found it extraordinary that she should
be seeking me out on the telephone in this fashion. Feeling as she did so allergic to Bertram, I
wouldn’t have thought she’d have phoned me with a ten-foot pole.
However, there beyond a question she was.
‘Mr. Wooster?’
‘Oh, hullo, Lady Wickham.’
‘Are you there?’
I put her straight on this point, and she took time out to sob again. She then spoke in a hoarse,
throaty voice, like Tallulah Bankhead after swallowing a fish bone the wrong way.
‘Is this awful news true?’
‘Eh?’
‘Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear!’
‘I don’t quite follow.’
‘In this morning’s Times.’
I’m pretty shrewd, and it seemed to me, reading between the lines, that there must have been
something in the issue of The Times published that morning that for some reason had upset her,
though why she should have chosen me to tell her troubles to was a mystery not easy to fathom. I
was about to institute inquiries in the hope of spearing a solution, when in addition to sobbing she
started laughing in a hyena-esque manner, making it clear to my trained ear that she was having
hysterics. And before I could speak there was a dull thud suggestive of some solid body falling to
earth, I knew not where, and when the dialogue was resumed, I found that the butler had put himself
on as an understudy.
‘Mr. Wooster?’
‘Still here.’
‘I regret to say that her ladyship has fainted.’
‘It was she I heard going bump?’
‘Precisely, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Good-bye.’
He replaced the receiver and went about his domestic duties, these no doubt including the
loosening of the stricken woman’s corsets and burning feathers under her nose, leaving me to chew
on the situation without further bulletins from the front.
It seemed to me that the thing to do here was to get hold of The Times and see what it had to offer in the way of enlightenment.
It’s a paper I don’t often look at, preferring for breakfast reading
the Mirror and the Mail, but Jeeves takes it in and I have occasionally borrowed his copy with a
view to having a shot at the crossword puzzle. It struck me as a possibility that he might have left today’s issue in the kitchen,
and so it proved. I came back with it, lowered myself into a chair, lit
another cigarette and proceeded to cast an eye on its contents.
At a cursory glance what might be called swoon material appeared to be totally absent from its
columns. The Duchess of something had been opening a bazaar at Wimbledon in aid of a deserving
charity, there was an article on salmon fishing on the Wye, and a Cabinet Minister had made a
speech about conditions in the cotton industry, but I could see nothing in these items to induce a
loss of consciousness. Nor did it seem probable that a woman would have passed out cold on reading that
Herbert Robinson (26) of Grove Road, Ponder’s End, had been jugged for stealing a pair of
green-and-yellow-checked trousers. I turned to the cricket news. Had some friend of hers failed to
score in one of yesterday’s county matches owing to a doubtful l.b.w. Decision?
It was just after I had run the eye down the Births and Marriages that I happened to look at the
Engagements, and a moment later I was shooting out of my chair as if a spike had come through its
cushioned seat and penetrated the fleshy parts.
‘Jeeves!’ I yelled, and then remembered that he had long since gone with the wind. A bitter
thought, for if ever there was an occasion when his advice and counsel were of the essence, this occ.
Was that occ. The best I could do, tackling it solo, was to utter a hollow g. and bury the face in the
hands. And though I seem to hear my public tut-tutting in disapproval of such neurotic behaviour, I
think the verdict of history will be that the paragraph on which my gaze had rested was more than
enough to excuse a spot of face-burying.
It ran as follows:
FORTHCOMING MARRIAGES
The engagement is announced between Bertram Wilberforce Wooster of Berkeley Mansions,
W.1, and Roberta, daughter of the late Sir Cuthbert Wickham and Lady Wickham of Skeldings
Hall, Herts.